01 This refers to a person’s identification with a group of people who share the cultural traditions of a particular homeland or hearth, and connect that person to that place.
30 Coinciding with the industrial revolution, this revolution involved crop rotation; the use of fertilizers; livestock breeding; enclosed fields; & the use of machinery to farm.
18 This refers to a state that has no independent access to a sea or ocean.  Two examples in South America are Paraguay and Bolivia.  There are 14 such states in Africa.
37 This is the extensive commercial grazing of livestock over large areas of arid land, as practiced in the western U.S., the pampas of Argentina, Uruguay, and southern Brazil.
60 Rent, energy, labor & transportation are costs to an industry that go up and down over time or in different areas.  They give industries some flexibility to control their costs.
16 This is the policy of European states to create empires comprised of colonies scattered around the world.  Most of these former colonies are now independent states.
61 The 1st describes the clustering of many industries in one area to share resources; the 2nd results when too much clustering sharply increases labor & transportation costs.
33 This is commercial agriculture in developing countries in which crops like coffee, sugar cane and bananas are grown for export to the MDCs, which often own the land.
56 In the 19th Century, coal was the source of power generation; in the 20th Century, coal was joined by oil and natural gas.  Each is finite and causes environmental problems.
70 This is the core area of a city, where retail stores and business offices cluster as the central economic area of the much larger metropolitan area.  Think of downtown D.C.
14 Some city-states evolved into these larger states, in which the state’s territory was populated by one ethnicity.  Rare modern day examples include Japan and Denmark.
62 Urban renewal, renovating run-down sections of a city, includes the first, government subsidized housing for the poor; and the second, city homes for the young and affluent.
13 In ancient times, these were the very first states, comprised of a town and the surrounding countryside.  Singapore is a modern day example of this kind of state.
74 These are peripheral urban areas that develop in the far suburbs of a core city that feature single and multiple family housing, shopping malls, and businesses with jobs.
45 The U.N. measures gross domestic product per capita, literacy rate, years of education, and life expectancy to compare the relative level of human welfare in countries.
59 The first locates closer to markets, as the product, like bottled soda, leaves heavier. The second locates closer to its natural resources, as the product, like steel, leaves lighter.
35 This commercial agriculture practiced in the U.S. and northern Europe involves growing grain like corn to feed animals like cattle and pigs, which are sold for meat.
64 This term has many uses to describe a critical center area and its outlying regions. Uses include the MDCs & LDCs; and the center city and outlying areas of urban geography.
02 This refers to the identification of a person based on skin color or other physical features, or self-identification with a group of people based on a common ancestor.
17 These invisible lines establish the outermost reaches of a state’s territory and give the state its shape. They may be based on physical features, culture, or political treaty.
25 These are organizations composed of more than one state, brought together to achieve peace, a military alliance, or improved trade.  Think of the U.N., NATO, & NAFTA.
05 To a geographer, this refers to a person’s identification with a group of people who share a home territory or hearth.  It is not a reference to a state or country.
21 This is the structure of government, first conceived in the U.S. Constitution, in which power is divided or shared between the national and local governments.
52 This refers to a country that, through industrialization, progresses rapidly from a non-democratic poor country to a democratic wealthy country.  South Korea is an example.
57 This refers to a number of different theories about where industries locate.  Among the factors involved are proximity to natural resources, transportation, labor, and markets.
46 The 1st are workers like farmers, miners, and fishermen who extract materials from the Earth; the 2nd are workers who manufacture or make things out of those materials.
66 This includes a city and the communities (suburbs) that surround it.  Together, they operate as a large-scale functional and economic entity for a big, diverse population.
31 This is the type of agriculture often practiced in tropical climates.  It involves slashing vegetation after harvest, burning the debris, & leaving fields fallow to regain nutrients.
32 This is the type of animal husbandry (domestication) in arid regions in which the people and their animals are continually moving to find pasture to feed the animals.
75 To help prevent sprawl, the building of housing away from services and infrastructure, metropolitan areas rely on “smart growth:” where particular structures can be built.
12 This refers to the power of the government of an independent state to control its own internal and foreign affairs, free from the interference of other states.
65 This is a permanent urban settlement characterized by its large size, high population density, and people with diverse backgrounds.  It exists both legally and functionally.
58 This refers to the location and process in which cargo is transferred from one type of transportation carrier to another, e.g., ships to trains, trains to trucks, trucks to planes.
67 These huge metropolitan areas have populations exceeding 10 million.  Tokyo has more than 30 million.  Mexico City, Seoul, NYC, São Paulo, & Mumbai exceed 20 million.
03 To a geographer, this refers to a person’s identification with a group of people who share a particular homeland or hearth.  It is not a reference to a state or country.
38 This commercial agriculture of grapes, olives, nuts, fruits and vegetables is practiced in California, southern Europe, Chile, and parts of Australia and South Africa. 
48 This measures the value of a particular product compared to the amount of labor needed to make it.  Technology increases this by making products using less labor.
27 This is type of agriculture in which the farmer’s goal is to feed his family and himself.  Even today, most of the world’s farmers practice the intensive form of this activity.
