00 No
01 This is the study of where people live on Earth and why they live there. For example, what factors resulted in all of us being together at AEHS in Montgomery County, MD?
05 This is any specific point on Earth distinguished by a particular characteristic.  An example is AEHS, distinguished by its location, its buildings, and its people.
07 This is the study and practice of mapmaking.
10 Taken together, geographic information systems (GIS), global positioning systems (GPS), & remote sensing comprise modern technology’s improvements on mapmaking.
13 This is a way of describing a place on Earth by noting where it is in relation to another place, for example, noting that AEHS is about ½ mile northwest of Wheaton Plaza.
14 This is a way of describing a place on Earth, using the intersection of artificial lines called meridians & parallels, which are numbered respectively by longitude & latitude.
15 The first is at 0° longitude; the second is approximately halfway around the Earth from the first going in either direction, either East or West, at 180° longitude.
17 These are regions that are organized around a central focal point. Distance decay, less influence, occurs as you move away from the focal point, like fans for a sports team.
18 These are regions that people create by picturing them in their minds, like “mental maps.” What do you picture with terms like “the South,” or “where the rich folks live.”
21 This is the belief of early geographers that where people lived largely determined their activities and behavior, for example, a very warm climate hindered economic progress.
22 This is the belief of modern geographers that human beings can adapt to overcome the barriers of environmental determinism, for example, learning to overcome prejudices.
23 This is the portion of the Earth’s land surface on which people live, which is limited because of climate & topography.  75% of the world’s people live on 5% of its surface.
25 This is the population of a country per square unit (kilometer/mile) of arable land.  Since it is mostly desert, in Egypt the number of people per K2 of arable land is 2,600.
29 This is average number of children a woman in a particular country will have during her lifetime. In the U.S., it is approximately two.  In a few countries, it exceeds six.
30 This is the annual number of children who will die before the age of one for every 1,000 births in that country.  In Africa, more than 10% of all infants die before turning one.
31 This measures the average number of years a woman or man can expect to live based on mortality rates in their country of birth. In much of Western Europe, it exceeds 80.
33 These are the countries of the world that are still in Stage 2 of the demographic transition, usually with high birth rates and with many people living in poverty.
34 These are the countries of the world now in Stage 3 or 4 of the demographic transition.  They have very low or even negative population growth and advanced economies.
35 The first significant growth in the population rate of the world began with this momentous human achievement, which took place approximately 10,000 years ago.
37 This graph represents the percentage of population by age and gender for a country, region, or city.  Its shape varies based on the stage of the demographic transition.
39 This term refers to the general ability of people to move from one place to another, such as moving between home and school and back again during the school year.
44 This migration pattern finds new immigrants following their relatives or neighbors, so that their new home provides some familiarity in terms of culture and language.
45 Even though it was and is a land of immigrants, the U. S. Government established these in the 1920s as a means to control the number and land of origin of new immigrants.
48 Many European countries allow these people from less developed countries to obtain temporary employment in jobs that they are unable to fill with their own citizens.
49 Two major forces compete in human geography, the first based on traditional beliefs & folk culture, the second based on a global economy and the spread of popular culture.
52 These are the traditional cultural practices, beliefs and physical artifacts that exist within homogeneous societies and are passed on from generation to generation.
53 These are the cultural practices, beliefs and physical artifacts that are shared and spread among large, heterogeneous societies, and are associated with globalization.
55 This is the process in which people lose their distinctive cultural traits after they move to another culture.  An example is the “Americanization” of our immigrant students.
60 These are regional variations of a language, distinguished by pronunciation, spelling & vocabulary. For example, English sounds different wherever it is spoken in the world.
61 This is a language that becomes widely used around the world to facilitate international trade.  In recent years, English has assumed this role.
66 This is a type of religion that tries to appeal to and to convert people from all over the world.  By far, the three largest examples are Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism.
67 This is a type of religion that has its hearth in a particular place or region and does not actively seek to convert others.  Examples are Hinduism, Judaism, and Shintoism.
68 This is a large, fundamental division within a religion, such as Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, & Protestant in Christianity, and Sunni & Shiite in Islam.
71 This is the doctrine or belief in the existence of only one god.  The first religion to practice this was Judaism, followed by Christianity and Islam.
72 This is the belief that objects, like plants or rocks, or natural events, like thunderstorms or earthquakes, have a distinct spirit and conscious life.
73 This is the belief in or worship of more than one god.
74 This is a religion in which there is an ascending order of central control over religious beliefs and practices, such as the plateaus from priest to Pope in Roman Catholicism.
75 This is the literal interpretation and strict adherence to the basic principles of a religion, branch, denomination, or sect, so that deviations are believed to be sins.
03 This is the method geographers apply to the social science of geography, observing how phenomena differ from one place to another across the surface of the Earth.
69 This is a division within a religious branch which unites local congregations.  Examples within Protestantism are Baptist, Methodist, Episcopalian, Lutheran, & Presbyterian.
12 This is a way of describing a place on Earth by describing its physical characteristics, like its climate, water sources, topography, soil, vegetation and elevation.
57 Language families include these major divisions based on an ancient ancestor.  Indo-European examples include Romance, Germanic, Balto-Slavic, & Indo-Iranian.
59 These are sets of languages within a branch whose origin is in the relatively recent past.  Germanic examples include West Germanic, High Germanic & Scandinavian.
